Updated the CONTRIBUTING document to be more descriptive (#1592)
atlassian-labs/compiled: CONTRIBUTING.md

Thank you for considering to contribute to Compiled!
Pull requests, issues and comments are welcome.

## Contribution Standards

- Add tests for new features and bug fixes
- Follow the existing style
- Separate unrelated changes into multiple pull requests

> - As Compiled has not been officially released, when implementing a new feature, please add a changeset by calling `yarn changeset` and select `minor`.

Reviewer: A new feature is considered a _minor_ regardless.
I suggest changing the text to
```suggestion
- As Compiled has not been officially released, when introducing a breaking change, please add a changeset by calling `yarn changeset` and select `minor`.
```

> - As Compiled has not been officially released, when introducing a breaking change, please add a changeset by calling `yarn changeset` and select `minor`.

Reviewer 2: Isn't a changeset required for any change, regardless of the type?
I would probably reframe this list differently. For example

A changeset is required...run ... select `minor`/`major`/`patch`.... 

Also what do we mean with " As Compiled has not been officially released"

Reviewer 3: > Also what do we mean with " As Compiled has not been officially released"

I think it's referring to how Compiled has not yet had a stable release (v1.0)

We probably should make a stable release at some point but it's not in our priorities at the moment

- [CLA for individuals](https://opensource.atlassian.com/individual)
- [CLA for corporate contributors](https://opensource.atlassian.com/corporate)

## Key Concepts

### CSS-in-JS

> Compiled is a CSS-in-JS library: a library that lets React developers write CSS within their React code. Other libraries in this space include styled-components and Emotion. Below are some code examples.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Compiled is a CSS-in-JS library that lets React developers write CSS within their React code. Other libraries in this space include styled-components and Emotion. Below are some code examples.
```

> Compiled is a CSS-in-JS library: a library that lets React developers write CSS within their React code. Other libraries in this space include styled-components and Emotion. Below are some code examples.

Reviewer: Compiled should be framework agnostic, at least it's trying to be 🤦‍♂️ 
```suggestion
Compiled is a CSS-in-JS library: a library that lets frontend developers write CSS within their JavaScript code. Other libraries in this space include styled-components and Emotion. Below are some code examples.
```

Reviewer 3: I might be misremembering here, but isn't React the only major framework without an inbuilt CSS-in-JS solution? 😅

> How people usually write in Compiled (we do want to change this long-term). This is similar to the styled function from [styled-components](https://styled-components.com/).

Reviewer 5: nit: it's hard to read this sentence.

> How people usually write in Compiled (we do want to change this long-term). This is similar to the styled function from [styled-components](https://styled-components.com/).

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on just provide a  link to the [website](https://compiledcssinjs.com/docs/) and make sure that the related sections are up-to-date? It may be easier to update it in the future, if we need to maintain the info only in 1 place

Reviewer 3: hmm perhaps https://compiledcssinjs.com/docs/writing-css could be used for this

(https://github.com/compiled/website/blob/master/packages/docs/src/pages/writing-css.mdx)

```javascript
import { styled } from '@compiled/react';

const MyComponent = styled.div({
  margin: 0,
  color: 'blue',
  padding: '250px',
  backgroundColor: 'pink',
});

export const App = () => <MyComponent>Hello!</MyComponent>;
```

However, long term we want developers to write more like below. This is more similar to [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/css-prop).

```javascript

> /** @jsx jsx */
> import { css } from '@compiled/react';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
/** @jsx jsx */
import { css, jsx } from '@compiled/react';
```

Ah this is probably more medium-term than long-term - we want this syntax due to the [new JSX transform](https://legacy.reactjs.org/blog/2020/09/22/introducing-the-new-jsx-transform.html) previously not being available in atlassian products. (I think our products were still on React 16? Whereas the new JSX transform is React 17+)

Long-term we can switch to the new JSX transform `/** @jsxAutomaticRuntime @compiled/react */` and avoid needing to import `jsx` from `@compiled/react`. @liamqma can you confirm whether we have existing plans for this?

Reviewer: I am not aware of any plan in this area. Maybe Jake would know.

Reviewer 3: ah no worries

Reviewer 5: We 100% want to enable this. Just needs someone to champion it.

const myStyles = css({
  margin: 0,
  color: 'blue',
  padding: '250px',
  backgroundColor: 'pink',
});

export const App = () => <div css={myStyles}>Hello!</div>;
```

> ### Abstract Syntax Trees

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Abstract Syntax Trees (AST)
```

> ASTs are a core concept that is used in the babel plugin (bulk of compiled implementation) and automations via codemods or ESLinters. An AST is an abstract representation of the syntax that makes up the programming language. ASTs are used to manipulate JavaScript code at build time, or to automatically refactor code. This concept is important for understanding automation, which is key to maintaining any moderate to large codebase.

Reviewer 4: We're already in the key concept section, so it's a bit redundant. Also lead in with the definition first.

```suggestion
An AST is an abstract representation of the syntax that makes up the programming language. ASTs are used to manipulate JavaScript code at build time, or to automatically refactor code. This concept is important for understanding automation, which is key to maintaining any moderate to large codebase.

The `@compiled/babel-plugin` is backed by ASTs and forms the core implementation of Compiled. We recommend using [AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/) to gain a working understanding of ASTs, and our codebase.
```

To gain a working understanding of ASTs, we recommend using [AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/).

## Getting started with local development

> ### Requirements

Reviewer 4: /nit I prefer `Prerequisites` but up to you

- NodeJS: https://nodejs.org/en/download
- NVM: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm
- Yarn: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable

> ### Set Up

Reviewer 4: Normally this heading is called `Installation` or `Getting started`

- Use the recommended nvm version by calling `nvm use`
- Install all necessary dependencies with `yarn` or `yarn install`

> - You will know things are working when calling `nvm use && yarn build` show no error output

Reviewer 2: "shows"
